this video was made in partnership with
curiosity stream
where
[Music]
being the largest land building the
current meta has its advantages size
makes you much harder to defeat simply
by nature of having a higher HP stat and
also possibly having your weak points
out of reach
however size alone typically isn't
enough to let any particular build reach
a high tier spot in the meta because
large size comes with a lot of
disadvantages to the two most important
ones are that being a giant makes
defeating you worth a lot more
experience and that sustaining giant
size requires significantly more food
and water despite these challenges
there's no question that elephants have
carved out a dominant niche in the
African meta which is saying a lot given
that Africa is basically the Grand
Master League server of outside
elephants also boasts a sizable player
base in the Asia server so how is it
that they're so successful for that we
need to look at the elephant build stats
and abilities first their stats so it's
probably no surprise that the elephants
HP and defense stats both are quite high
the massive size of the elephant means
that can take hits that would or
kill other players such as the head bash
of a fellow elephant but the elephant
also boasts a thick hide that allows it
to negate damage of low power attacks
and more importantly mitigate one of the
main downsides of being massive becoming
riddled with parasites on the offensive
side of things it's probably also no
surprise that the elephant boasts
imaginative ways to deal serious damage
and their front-facing tusks act as a
powerful disjointed hitbox that can both
parry incoming attacks and compel any
player to slow to get out of the way the
elephant build is also one of the only
builds in the game capable of knocking
down trees this means that despite them
not having the height advantage that
giraffes do they can still access the
same treetop loot if they need to
it also means players cannot escape an
elephants attack by climbing up a tree
the elephant's trunk can also be used as
a blunt force weapon or a ground away
but honestly that only scratches the
surface of what a trunk is useful for
we'll come back to that in the mobility
Department we find one of the elephants
only weaknesses their top speed is
nowhere near sufficient to let that
outrun an attacking player or chase down
a target luckily there are other stats
generally mean that they don't have to
worry about this however low mobility
has other implications too elephants are
easily blocked by environmental barriers
because they lack the ability to jump
they are particularly fast swimmers
either although they have ways of
managing this weakness to their last
notable stat is their incredible
intelligence level it is among the
highest in the game tied for second
place with the cetaceans like dolphins
and whales this gives them access to the
tool usability problem-solving
capabilities cross-species cooperation
based strategies and the ability to
remember places on the mini-map useful
for survival such as watering holes and
mountain trout due to the elephant's
long lifespan their intellect can cause
them to gain incredible amounts of
wisdom over the course of their
playthrough to the point where an
experienced elephant may have better
knowledge of its territory than even a
human so in terms of stats elephants
obviously have one of the highest base
stat total in the game
lacking only in mobility and stealth but
this alone would not be enough for me to
give them a top-tier rating so what
abilities do they employ to make use of
their stats and dominate such a
competitive meta there are two that I
want to discuss first their ears the
elephant's ears serve multiple purposes
they're more sensitive than human ears
to sound particularly low-frequency
sounds aka the kinds of sounds elephants
can make because of that elephants can
communicate over great distances via
infrasound this can be critical for
coordinating team strategies and warning
your traps when danger approaches or if
another herd is encroaching on your
territory in addition to their auditory
uses the elephant's ears also grant the
elephant a heat resistance both their
ears can be flushed with blood and
flapped around to lower their body
temperature ensuring that they never
take damage from overheating this buff
is much more integral to gameplay in the
African server and so players tend to
spec into larger ears when trying to
compete there that's a good ability but
I'm going to cut to the chase basically
everything opie about the elephant can
be traced back to their signature
ability their trunk because this ability
does everything because it's a modified
nose the trunk grants a bonus to all
detection and search roles based on
smell this lets elephant players
pinpoint which direction they need to
head in order to find more food or water
and lets them know if an enemy player is
nearby but smell barely scratches the
surface of what a trunk can do the trunk
score use is as a fifth appendage
the elephant's actual limbs aren't very
versatile outside of standing and
walking the most advanced move they can
do is a pretty simple kick the trunk
however has multiple combat moves
including a simple flash attack and more
importantly a highly effective grab
attack the bash attack is honestly worse
than a kick in terms of damage although
it does have better range but the grab
attack can make certain matchups
downright unwinnable for the other
player grabs aren't just useful for
attacks though being able to pick up and
carry items is the hallmark of a high
tier character that can make use of
tools elephants are known to use sticks
as weapons massively extending the
hitbox of their trunk swipe attack they
can also throw items which theoretically
would give them an absolutely massive
attack range they aren't very accurate
with their throws yet but once the
elephant player base masters this tech I
wouldn't be surprising the community
starts calling for bands but again
there's still more than the trunk can do
the next use it can have is for
intimidation elephants can use their
trunk to execute the move trumpet blast
this AoE attack casts and intimidation
the oppressor rounding players and is
extremely effective for clearing an area
control over a watering hole can mean
the difference between leveling up or
getting a game over and the trumpet
blast attack is integral to the
elephant's success in driving away other
players from these control points
without actually needing to risk the
physical battle lastly I mentioned
before the elephants are slow swimmers
normally this would be a problem because
it means elephants would have trouble
crossing large bodies of water
they aren't dense enough to sink to the
bottom and gallop across like hippos do
however even though it might take them a
while to cross elephants have no reason
to fear drowning because they can use
their trunk like a snorkel completely
negating the need to worry about their o
to meter draining aside from humans
elephants have no losing matchups while
they are vulnerable during the first
three levels of their playthrough before
they are bulky enough to shrug off most
attacks the elephants team strategies
are usually enough to protect the noobs
hopefully this video convinced you how
overpowered elephants and particularly
the trunk ability are by the way may
have noticed that my last video actually
got blocked
well I hope to have the video restored
soon you should know that the blocked
video as well as another completely
original video are both available on
nebula the video streaming service
created and owned by several independent
creators including myself it's a
platform where creators can post
whatever content they like without
having to worry about rogue algorithms
issuing copyright claims or YouTube's
new monetization policies and because of
our business partner curiosity stream us
creators are given opportunities to
pursue much grander projects with a
higher production value both of the
videos I've currently got only on nebula
are exactly that both of those videos
feature footage from curiosity streams
documentary amazing dinoworld a brand
new curiosity stream regional that's
easily on par with walking with
dinosaurs in production quality and you
can get access to their documentary and
mine a mule originals at the same time
because the best way to get access to
nebula is through our bundle with
curiosity stream which gives you access
to both amazing streaming sites and hey
if you just want to learn more about
pachyderm builds there are plenty of
other documentaries on curiosity stream
you can watch - such as Ice Age Giants
and walking with beasts both of which
have entire episodes centered around
mammoths and mastodons the pioneers of
the pachyderm build so head on over to
curiosity stream comm slash tears you
and start your free trial of both
services last but not least special
thanks to my patrons for supporting me
and thank you for watching
[Music]